Intro to Substrate MOOC - Module 1 (#95)
w3f/w3f-education: docs/Substrate/section1/what-is-substrate.md

---
id: what-is-substrate

> title: Substrate - the backend of web3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Substrate - powering Web3
```

sidebar_label: What is Substrate and FRAME?
description: Learn what Substrate it is, and why it's the future of building infrastructure in web3.
---

Substrate is a modular framework that enables you to create domain-specific blockchains by composing custom or pre-built components.  The *Framework for Runtime Aggregation of Modularized Entities (**FRAME**)* is a set of modules and support libraries that simplify runtime development.  In Substrate, these modules are called **pallets**, each hosting domain-specific logic to include in a chain's runtime.

> Substrate may be utilized to create a solo chain and parachain for a relay chain like Polkadot (respectively).  At its core, it is a set of Rust crates that provide the most basic primitives and protocols to implement a distributed state machine, such as a blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Substrate may be utilized to create a solo chain or a parachain for a relay chain like Polkadot or Kusama.  At its core, it is a set of Rust crates that provide the most basic primitives and protocols to implement a distributed state machine, such as a blockchain.
```

:::info An analogy: React, the library for web and native user interfaces

Another way to think about Substrate is similar to how a web developer may use/think about React.  Where React provides core libraries for manipulating the elements of the DOM via developer-defined components, Substrate also provides the base libraries and primitives needed to create a blockchain.  It was designed to not be opinionated via a highly generic codebase, enabling high customizability.

:::

## Substrate's Libraries

Substrate, as mentioned, is a collection of Rust crates that define a generic way to implement a blockchain.  Although you will only use a few of these libraries directly in this course, know that everything you use is built upon them. 

> You will encounter two primary prefixes when developing with Substrate crates: `sc-` and `sp-`.  Crates prefixed with `sc-` usually refer to network-related functionalities, such as peer-to-peer networking or consensus.  The `sp-` prefix usually indicates that the library in question is for allowing the outer node and runtime to communicate. 

Reviewer: sc is substrate client and sp is substrate primitive

Author: Addressed 👍
